he lion (Panthera leo) is a species in the family Felidae and a member of the genus Panthera. It is considered to be the second-largest living cat species after the tiger, and is easily recognisable by the distinctive mane of the male. Once widepsread throughout North America, Eurasia and Africa, lions currently inhabit scattered populations in Sub-Saharan Africa and one population in western India. It has been listed as Vulnerable on the IUCN Red List since 1996, as populations in African range countries declined by about 43% since the early 1990s. Lion populations are untenable outside designated protected areas. Although the cause of the decline is not fully understood, habitat loss and conflicts with humans are the greatest causes of concern. The Asiatic lion and the West African lion are listed as Endangered and Critically Endangered repectively.

The lion typically inhabits grasslands and savannahs, but is absent in dense forest. It is usually more diurnal than other big cats, but when persecuted adapts to being active at night and at twilight. A lion pride consists of a few adult males, related females and cubs. Prides vary in size and composition from three to 20 adult lions, depending on habitat and prey availability. The lion is an apex and keystone predator. Females cooperate when hunting and prey mostly on large ungulates, including antelope, deer, buffalo, zebras and even giraffes.

The lion is one of the most widely recognised animal symbols in human culture. Cultural depictions of lions are known from the Upper Paleolithic period, with carvings and paintings from the Lascaux and Chauvet Caves in France dated to 17,000 years ago, through virtually all ancient and medieval cultures where they once occurred. It has been extensively depicted in sculptures and paintings, on national flags, and in contemporary films and literature. Lions have been kept in menageries since the time of the Roman Empire, and have been a key species sought for exhibition in zoos over the world since the late 18th century.

The lion's name, similar in many Romance languages, is derived from the Latin leo,[4] and the Ancient Greek λέων (leon).[5] The Hebrew word לָבִיא (lavi) may also be related.[6] It was one of the species originally described by Linnaeus, who gave it the name Felis leo, in his eighteenth-century work, Systema Naturae.[3]